Dynamic pipelines - a new `foreach` block (#1480)
grafana/alloy: docs/sources/reference/config-blocks/foreach.md

---
canonical: https://grafana.com/docs/alloy/latest/reference/stdlib/foreach/
description: Learn about foreach

> menuTitle: foreach
> title: foreach
> ---
> 
> <span class="badge docs-labels__stage docs-labels__item">Experimental</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
labels:
  stage: experimental
menuTitle: foreach
title: foreach
---

```

We can now use the labels.stage metadata to add an `Experimental` badge

# foreach

{{< docs/shared lookup="stability/experimental_feature.md" source="alloy" version="<ALLOY_VERSION>" >}}

The `foreach` block runs a separate pipeline for each item inside a list.

## Usage

```alloy
foreach "<LABEL>" {
  collection = [...]
  var        = "<VAR_NAME>"
  template {
    ...
  }
}
```

## Arguments

> The following arguments are supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following arguments with `foreach`:
```

> Name             | Type        | Description                                                           | Default | Required
> -----------------|-------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------
> `collection`     | `list(any)` | A list of items to loop over.                                         |         | yes
> `var`            | `string`    | Name of the variable referring to the current item in the collection. |         | yes
> `enable_metrics` | `bool`      | Whether to expose debug metrics in the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} `/metrics` endpoint.       | `false` | no

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Name             | Type        | Description                                                                              | Default | Required
-----------------|-------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------|---------
`collection`     | `list(any)` | A list of items to loop over.                                                            |         | yes
`var`            | `string`    | Name of the variable referring to the current item in the collection.                    |         | yes
`enable_metrics` | `bool`      | Whether to expose debug metrics in the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} `/metrics` endpoint. | `false` | no
```

Just formatting the table

The items in the `collection` list can be of any type [type][types], such as a bool, a string, a list, or a map.

{{< admonition type="warning" >}}
Setting `enable_metrics` to `true` when `collection` has lots of elements may cause a large number of metrics to appear on the {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} `/metric` endpoint.
{{< /admonition >}}

[types]: ../../../get-started/configuration-syntax/expressions/types_and_values

## Blocks

> The following blocks are supported inside the definition of `foreach`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following blocks with `foreach`:
```

This sentence change is being implemented in the linting cleanup. It removes the passive voice which is a goal we aim for in all docs.

> Hierarchy | Block        | Description                  | Required
> ----------|--------------|------------------------------|---------
> template  | [template][] | A component pipeline to run. | yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Block        | Description                  | Required
--------------|------------------------------|---------
[template][] | A component pipeline to run. | yes
```

We can drop the hierarchy column. I'm working on removing it throughout the docs. It's duplicate information and can be represented well enough in the `Block` column with it's accompanying explanation where there are nested blocks.

> [template]: #template-block

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[template]: #template
```

> ### template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `template`
```

The `template` block contains the definition of {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} components which will be ran for every item in the collection.
The contents of the block look like a normal {{< param "PRODUCT_NAME" >}} configuration file,
except that you can use the keyword defined in `var` to refer to the current item in the collection.

Components inside the `template` block can use exports of components defined outside of the `foreach` block.
However, components outside of the `foreach` cannot use exports from components defined inside the `template` block of a `foreach`.

## Example

The following example shows you how to run Prometheus exporters dynamically on service discovery targets.

`prometheus.exporter.*` components often require the address of one particular instance being monitored.
For example, `prometheus.exporter.redis` has a `redis_addr` attribute for the Redis instance under observation.
On the other hand, `discovery.*` components such as `discovery.kubernetes` output a list of targets such as this:

> {{< collapse title="Example targets output by discovery.kubernetes" >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< collapse title="Example targets output by `discovery.kubernetes`" >}}
```

            redis_addr = each["__address__"]
        }

        prometheus.scrape "default" {
            targets    = prometheus.exporter.redis.default.targets
            forward_to = [prometheus.relabel.default.receiver]
        }

        // Add labels from discovery.kubernetes.
        prometheus.relabel "default" {
            rule {
                replacement  = each["__meta_kubernetes_namespace"]
                target_label = "k8s_namespace"
                action       = "replace"
            }

            rule {
                replacement  = each["__meta_kubernetes_pod_container_name"]
                target_label = "k8s_pod_container_name"
                action       = "replace"
            }

            forward_to = [prometheus.remote_write.mimir.receiver]
        }
    }
}

prometheus.remote_write "mimir" {
    endpoint {
        url = "https://prometheus-xxx.grafana.net/api/prom/push"

        basic_auth {
            username = sys.env("<PROMETHEUS_USERNAME>")
            password = sys.env("<GRAFANA_CLOUD_API_KEY>")
        }
    }
}
```

Replace the following:

* _`<PROMETHEUS_USERNAME>`_: Your Prometheus username.

> * _`<GRAFANA_CLOUD_API_KEY>`_: Your Grafana Cloud API key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* _`<GRAFANA_CLOUD_API_KEY>`_: Your Grafana Cloud API key.

```

Markdown style says we should have an empty line at the end of the file.
